In this video we're going to learn about the last time.
And if you've dealt with networking for any period of time you've probably had some exposure to the
same model.
Now a lot of people don't really love to deal with the whole model or think about it.
But really once you kind of demystify and explain what the model means and get used to working with
it you'll find it really is an essential tool to kind of talk about networking protocols.
So all of the OS I model really is is kind of like a logical representation of how our devices on a
network can communicate with each other.
And the job of the model is to break down all of the functions that have to get performed by these components
that are connected to the network and then it breaks them down into simplified Lares.
So let's start out with the very basics.
What is oocyte stand for.
What is the OS model.
Well it stands for open system interconnect model
and the model includes seven laris.
And what I want to actually add in here is a little bit of an additional layer that I I sort of think
at the top of the OS II model.
Right so here we see the application presentation session and kind of on down the line towards the physical.
Right.
And that's the actual physical media like copper wire or fiber optic cable.
And I like to put at the top of the model one additional layer and I call this layer simply the user
layer right at the top of my model here.
That's where the user resides.
So as the information is flowing up through the OSA model it's getting closer to my user actually seeing
and utilizing that data.
So now that we have our user at the top of the OS II model let's look at the layer below that the application
layer.
And this is a really simple lair.
This is what the user is going to use.
This is what the user is going to see.
Right this is some application like Outlook for e-mail.
Right.
And so this is what the user themselves will actually interact with and utilize to receive this data.
The next layer is the presentation layer the presentation and session layers are actually pretty closely
linked to each other.
Think of these as the things that my operating system needs to do to communicate with some other operating
system.
For example I could have Windows running on my machine and I may be establishing a session with another
Windows machine.
That's what the presentation and session are do and honestly in this video we're not super concerned
with these top three layers application presentation in session.
These are kind of like the things that are happening within my computer and we're not so worried about
that from a networking perspective.
So we don't spend a lot of time on application presentation and session last.
So for these two layers let's just call the presentation layer.
My operating system will call the session layer.
This is how my operating system talks to other machines.
And now we get into the layers that we're more concerned with when it comes to networking.
The transport network datalink and physical Lares
So the transport layer involves ports and protocols things like f t p s s h h TTP.
Those are all different transport layer protocols and what they govern is how is my data actually move
from point A to Point B.
Is it going to be reliable.
If so we're talking about TCAP.
Is it going to be unreliable.
If so we're talking about UDP and we have these different protocols that basically do things differently
and different types of traffic have different needs.
So for example let's talk about.
And reliable type of traffic.
Let's say we're streaming video through Netflix Well we don't need to guarantee the reliable delivery
of that data.
All right let's say that a packet is dropped or lost.
Well we're not going to go back and retransmit that packet because at that point it's too late.
Right.
The time has already come and gone for that packet and so at this point we don't need reliable delivery
of data.
So we're going to go with an unreliable layer for protocol and that's suitable for certain types of
data.
However for other types of data that might not be suitable we may need to ensure that every last bit
of data that gets transmitted is received.
And that's where we're going to use TCAP the reliable delivery of data and TZP involves significantly
more overhead with TZP the two nodes that are communicating with each other are going to use tools like
checksums to ensure that everything that the sender has sent is actually received by the receiver.
And so this involves more overhead and more verification and therefore it's a little bit less efficient.
But there are certain protocols that we want to guarantee that level of delivery and we'll see this
expressed in all sorts of different ports like S-sh poor 22 a.p port 23 there's a wide variety of well-defined
port numbers and you can also utilize custom port numbers for your own applications.
The next layer will take a look at is the network where this is layer 3 and this is the layer or things
like IP addresses and routers reside.
So every device on a network has a unique identifier called an IP address.
And we may send packets to things like a default gateway which is commonly a router.
And as we work our way through this course you'll learn a lot more about IP routing layer 3 traffic
and the actual functions that a router performs.
But that's what we're talking about when we talk about Layer 3 is IP addresses and routers
layer 2 is our data link clear and that layer is commonly associated with ethernet.
So why the data link where we're talking about things like ether net about our ethernet switches about
protocols like ARP CTP and we're talking about our local area network and the ability to enter connected
devices with a switch that are on the same network.
Now the final layer the lowest layer on our website model is the physical for and this is the physical
stuff.
It's things like cables if you have like a microwave wireless transmitter.
That's the physical Lehre you know if you have a fiber optic cable or if you just simply have an ethernet
cord connecting your computer to a switch that's the physical layer.
So if something happens at the physical there we're typically talking about like a cable that's been
caught or some other kind of actual physical component failure.
Those are the things that create issues at the physical layer.
OK so now that we've defined the seven layers and given you a really basic understanding of what is
occurring at each layer Let's talk about some of the failures and some of the terminology that is used
to associate failures with the seven layers and we're going to work our way from the bottom up because
if I was troubleshooting an actual network.
That's what I would do.
I mean if I have a network problem I'm going to start by eliminating the physical Lehre as a potential
issue.
And honestly more often than not that's where you're going to find the problem.
So what sorts of problems can occur at the physical where well at the physical there we're talking about
something physical happening like somebody has unplugged to the wrong cable or somebody has accidentally
cut a cable that wasn't supposed to be cut.
Or maybe we're talking about wireless.
It's common to see things like interference or even with ethernet.
That's why that cabling is shielded.
Right because other sorts of electrical devices and things like that can interfere with our cables.
So if we're having a Alair one problem that means something's wrong at a physical level.
So what sort of failure can actually occur.
Datalink where while we have a few listed here.
And let's kind of work our way through them.
Now in modern switches we will almost always have a VPN associated with a port on a switch.
So you're going to plug a device into a switch and that device will be associated with a certain VPN.
We're going to have a video on villans coming up shortly.
But essentially here's how it works.
If one virtual machine is in V land tan let's say and another virtual machine is in Vili's and 20 they
won't be able to communicate with each other over layer 2.
It's a way to kind of break my switch up into segments and make it almost feel like multiple switches.
There are certain machines that we don't want to have them communicate over the switch.
I'd like to force their traffic through a firewall or something like that.
That's what we accomplish with a VPN.
So if we improperly configured a VPN or if we've configured a port in the wrong the mode those are data
link layer type issues we can also have broadcast traffic on Alair to network.
The most common form of broadcast traffic is ARP and this is where one device is trying to discover
the Mac address of another device.
And if I have loops in my typology that's going to result in something called the broadcast storm where
broadcast traffic just goes around and around and around infinitely from one switch to another until
it brings our network to a screeching halt.
We'll learn about spanning tree protocol in an upcoming video and that'll help us to ensure that these
loops do not exist in our lair to network.
So those are some layer to type of problems.
Right.
And just a quick reminder the address at Layer 2 is the MAC address.
Now this MAC address or Media Access Control address is hard coded into our network interface cards.
So whether we're talking about a virtual machine or a physical machine there is a unique MAC address
hardcoded into that device.
Now how about the network where what sorts of problems can occur there.
Well the most common problem is a duplicate IP address.
Maybe I've got two virtual machines or physical machines or whatever that are on the same network and
have been configured with the identical IP address.
That's not going to work.
Every machine on a network has to have a unique identifier.
The IP address has to be unique.
And so if we have IP conflicts that's going to be a layer 3 problem or if we have a mis configured router
maybe routing entries missing from our roundtable problems at the router level those are a layer of
three issues.
The next layer we'll talk about is the transport layer.
And honestly you're probably not going to run into a whole lot of issues here right at the transport
layer.
We don't often see a whole lot of misconfiguration or problems that occur as a matter of fact I'm struggling
to come up with a great example of a flair for problem that I've ever had to fix.
It basically as a as a networking person you're not going to have to mess around a whole lot with layer
4.
And this kind of is the same for Lares 5 6 and 7 right.
If you're a programmer if you're an application designer if you're in one of those roles then yeah.
Lares 4 through seven are really important to you.
But from our perspective as networking people we're very highly focused on layers 1 through 3.
Those are the layers that are really critical from a networking perspective and they're very important
to understand NSX and network virtualization as well.
So that's the area that will focus from here on out moving forward in this class.